# LikeMindsChat
Chat messaging app where users can create chat groups and interact with each another.

Chat messaging app has been created using the following technologies:
* Data binding
* Firebase Authentication
* Firebase Database
* Android MVVM architecture
* RXJava and LiveData
* ROOM (for storing offline datab)


Sample user login - info:
* User 1 : Email = abc@gmail.com , Password = abc123
* User 2 : Email = xyz@gmail.com , Password = xyz123
* User 3 : Email = lmn@gmail.com , Password = lmn123

The flow is pretty basic. User logins to the app after entering his/her email and password. Once logged in, an authentication token (uuid) generated by firebase SDK is kept. This is the token with which all the work happens now.
User can create a new chat group, where he/she needs to specify the chat title and add atlease 1 user ( from the list of the available users).
Once a group is created, the chat home screen listens to any new groups added. This is done via a ViewModel. The viewModel observes the data on the location in the firebase where a new group is added. If a new group is added, it is stored in local DB and since the chat home screen is observing this localDB via a liveData observer, hence it gets real time update from the localDB indicating a new group is added.
Similar approach has been followed to save chat messages of a chat group.
Hence, all the data on the chat home screen or the chat data screen is brought from the localDB.
Additionally, a logout button is also provided.
Since, the same localDB is used, hence it is advised to not login into multiple accounts from a single device.
